Now, longer you live, the more you realize acquiring wisdom is a lifelong process, really
a daily one.
Let's just analyze the process of acquiring wisdom.
The basis for wisdom is knowledge.
So the first step is to acquire knowledge, but wisdom isn't just knowing a lot of things.
Our insight book under the subject knowledge says this.
Wisdom is the ability to put knowledge to work or to use it, the intelligent application
of learning.
A person might have considerable knowledge, but not know how to use it.
Because of lacking wisdom, Jesus linked wisdom with accomplishment and saying wisdom
is proved righteous by its works.
To illustrate, someone once said, knowledge without wisdom is like having flower, eggs,
butter, milk, and sugar, but not knowing how to put it all together to make a cake.
So we might say that in God's Word, we have all the ingredients.
All the principles are there for wisdom.
We have to know how to put those principles together.
Make the cake.
The recipe is there.
Now sometimes in recipes, most of the time really, they list all the ingredients and sometimes
even step by step procedures to make a cake.
You might think, well, I wish I could see an expert cook, baker, actually put those ingredients
together.
Well, interesting today on the internet, you have these videos with experts doing just that.
Well in a way, that is what Chahova has done for us.
Because in the Bible, we have not just principles.
We have accounts of people putting those principles to work in their life.
They're showing us how to make the cake as it were.
Now here's, let's take an example of a married couple who might use accounts from the
Bible to help them see principles being put to work.
Those that will help them resolve a problem that will preserve their peace and unity.
And I must add this disclaimer.
If the person is described in this scenario, resemble anyone you know, it is a plainly
coincidental, as they say.
Now here's why she wants to raise an issue with her husband.
What's the problem?
She feels stressed out.
Both of them work every day at their Theocratic assignments.
The husband is very hospitable and he likes to invite people over for a meal.
Well, that's nice.
She likes that too.
The problem is, she ends up doing all the work, making the menu, preparing the meal, cleaning
up afterward, she's stressed.
Now she knows the principle.
Cleasy, S.E.37, there's a time to keep quiet and a time to speak.
Now can she find an example in the Bible of a wife who put that principle to work?
Ah, she thinks of Esther.
Remember Esther, Queen Esther, Esther, chapter 5.
She had a very delicate problem to discuss whether her husband the king, and she likely
knew this principle a time to speak.
How did she put that to work?
Well, she created a suitable setting to reveal what was in her heart.
She invited him to especially prepared banquets with things she knew he would like, including
wine.
And when he was in a good mood, she presented the problem at the right moment, and she
had success.
So having that example in mind, the wife will choose a time, create a setting when her
husband is relaxed, and she can speak respectfully about the situation.
Now what about the Christian husband in this scenario?
Now he knows the principle in 1 Peter 3.7, you husband, in the same way, continued dwelling
with them according to knowledge, assigned them honor as to a weaker vessel, the feminine
one.
So he knows the principle.
Know your wife's limitations, treat her considerably.
Now can he find a Bible example of a wise husband who put that principle to work in a practical
way?
Now let's take a brief glance at Genesis chapter 18.
We're not going to read all these verses, but in verses 1 to 8, here's the scenario.
Three important visitors show up unexpectedly at the 10th of Abraham.
He invites them for a meal.
He says, just a piece of bread.
Well, did he leave it to Sarah to figure out the menu?
He arranges for an elaborate meal consisting of freshly baked bread, butter, milk, choice,
tender meat.
Did he leave it to Sarah to do all the work?
Well he did ask her to prepare the bread.
But Abraham was personally involved in all the preparations, even setting the table with
the food and acting as a waiter.
So after reviewing that account, the husband sees the wisdom of helping his wife with the
work involved in hosting guests and including cleaning up afterwards.
Now this husband, who knows his wife, is overly stressed, might think of the principle
to any Ephesians 5, 25.
Husbands continue loving your wives just as the Christ also loved the congregation.
Well, how did Christ love the congregation?
How did he put that principle of love to work with the disciples?
Here's one example.
If you look in Matthew 1521, we read there, leaving there, that is probably a cavernium,
Jesus now went into the region of Tyre and Sidon.
So let me think to yourself, why is the Lord going outside the boundaries or the borders
of Israel into Gentile territory?
He was assigned to Israel.
The cross-reference you'll see is Mark 724.
And it adds this, he rose up from there and went into the region of Tyre and Sidon.
There he entered into a house and did not want anyone to know it, but he could not escape
notice.
Now this seems a little mysterious, perhaps at first.
Why does the Lord not want anyone to know where he was with the apostles?
The watchtower has commented that comparing this account with Mark 630 and 31, we see
that not very long before, Jesus had told the apostles that they should find an isolated
place and rest up a little.
Well, it never worked out because wherever Jesus went, the crowds followed him.
So by going into Phoenicia, outside the borders of Israel, not letting anyone else know
where he was going, taking the apostles with him, they could get some much-needed rest.
So we see how Jesus put the principle of love to work in the way He treated his disciples,
wise husbands, who do the same.
And there are times, really, during our busy lives when we too, and especially our dear
wives, need to rest up a little, even during this pandemic where we, on travel, is limited.
Well, let's try to find a way, sometime away from our normal routine, so the two of you
can rest up a little.
So in summary, as we go through our lives, let's just go on acquiring wisdom and as we acquire
knowledge of God's Word, see how others put that knowledge to work, we can act wisely.